

Introduction 
Version 2.13 | September 2024 
DoD-CIO-00007 (ZRIN 0790-ZA23) 
CMMC Scoping Guide 
Level 3 
24-T-2771

CM
MC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
ii 
NOTICES 
The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to 
bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public 
regarding existing CMMC requirements under the law or departmental policies. 
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited.

 
 
Introduction 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
1 
 
Introduction 
This document provides scoping guidance for Level 3 of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model 
Certification (CMMC) as set forth in section 170.19 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations 
(CFR).  Guidance  for  scoping  a  Level  1  self-assessment  can  be  found  in  the CMMC  Scoping  
Guide –    Level 1  document.  Guidance  for  scoping  a  Level  2  self-assessment or  certification  
assessment can be found in the CMMC Scoping Guide – Level 2 document. More details on the 
CMMC Model can be found in the CMMC Model Overview document. 
Purpose and Audience  
This guide is intended for Organizations Seeking Certification (OSCs) that will be obtaining a 
Level 3 certification assessment and the professionals or companies that will support them 
in those efforts. 
  

 
 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
2 
 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
An assessment,  as  defined  in  32  CFR  §  170.4, means  the  testing  or  evaluation  of  security  
controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating 
as  intended,  and  producing  the  desired  outcome  with  respect  to  meeting  the  security  
requirements for an information system or organization. 
This document should help the reader understand the categorization of assets that, in turn, 
inform  the  specification  of  the  boundary  for  a  CMMC  assessment.  The  scope  of  the CMMC 
Program does  not  include  classified  assets,  even  if  they  contain  applicable  Controlled 
Unclassified Information (CUI). 
Prior to conducting a Level 3 certification assessment, the CMMC Assessment Scope must be 
defined  as  addressed  in  32  CFR  §  170.19(d).  The  CMMC  Assessment  Scope  informs  which  
assets within the OSC’s environment will be assessed and the details of the assessment. 
When seeking a Level 3 certification assessment,  the OSC must have a Final Level 2 (C3PAO) 
CMMC Status for the same CMMC Assessment Scope as the Level 3 assessment. Any Level 2 
Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) items,  as defined in 32 CFR §170.4,  must be closed 
prior to the initiation of the Level 3 assessment. The Level 3 CMMC Assessment Scope may 
be a subset of the Level 2 CMMC Assessment Scope (e.g., a Level 3 data enclave with greater 
restrictions and protections within the Level 2 data enclave). 
Assets  designated  as  Contractor  Risk  Managed  Assets  (CRMAs) in  the  Level  2  CMMC 
Assessment Scope are treated as CUI assets if they fall within the Level 3 CMMC Assessment 
Scope.  OSCs  may  choose  to  designate  them  as  CUI  assets  for  the  Level  2  certification 
assessment and have them assessed by a C3PAO. 
Since the assessment requirements for Specialized Assets differ between Level 2 and Level 
3,  the  OSC  may  choose  to  have  them  assessed  by  a  C3PAO  during  the  Level  2  certification 
assessment. During a Level 3 certification assessment, DCMA DIBCAC may check any Level 2 
security requirement of any in-scope asset. 
CRMAs and Specialized Assets not assessed to the Level 3 scoping requirements by a C3PAO 
during the Level 2 certification assessment, will undergo limited checks   for compliance with 
Level 2 security requirements during the DCMA DIBCAC Level 3 certification assessment and 
will be assessed against all CMMC Level 3 security requirements. 
CMMC Asset Categories 
For  a  Level  3  assessment, assets are  mapped into  one  of  four categories defined  in 32 CFR § 
170.19(d)(1)  Table  4.  This  table  describes  each  asset  category  and  its  corresponding  OSC 
requirements  and  CMMC assessment  requirements.  Additional  information  about  each  asset  
category is provided in the ensuing sections. 

 
 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
3 
 
Table 1 . Level 3 Asset Categories and Associated Requirements Overview 
 
Asset 
Category 
Asset Description OSC Requirements 
CMMC Assessment 
Requirements 
Assets that are in the Level 3 CMMC Assessment Scope 
Controlled 
Unclassified 
Information 
(CUI) Assets 
o Assets that process, store, or 
transmit CUI 
o Assets that can, but are not 
intended to, process, store, or 
transmit CUI (defined as 
Contractor Risk Managed 
Assets in Table 1    to 32 CFR § 
170.19(c)(1)) 
o Document in the asset 
inventory 
o Document asset treatment in 
the System Security Plan 
(SSP) 
o Document in the network 
diagram of the CMMC 
Assessment Scope 
o Prepare to be assessed 
against CMMC Level 2 and 
Level 3 security 
requirements 
o Limited check against 
Level 2 and assess 
against all Level 3 
CMMC security 
requirements 
Security 
Protection 
Assets 
o Assets that provide security 
functions or capabilities to the 
OSC’s CMMC Assessment 
Scope, irrespective of whether 
or not these assets process, 
store, or transmit CUI 
o Document in the asset 
inventory 
o Document asset treatment in 
the SSP 
o Document in the network 
diagram of the CMMC 
Assessment Scope 
o Prepare to be assessed 
against CMMC Level 2 and 
Level 3 security 
requirements 
o Limited check against 
Level 2 and assess 
against all Level 3 
CMMC security 
requirements that are 
relevant to the 
capabilities provided 
Specialized 
Assets 
o  Assets that can process, store, 
or transmit CUI but are unable 
to be fully secured, including: 
Internet of Things (IoT) 
devices, Industrial Internet of 
Things (IIoT) devices, 
Operational Technology (OT), 
Government Furnished 
Equipment (GFE), Restricted 
Information Systems, and Test 
Equipment  
o Document in the asset 
inventory 
o Document asset treatment in 
the SSP 
o Document in the network 
diagram of the CMMC 
Assessment Scope 
o Prepare to be assessed 
against CMMC Level 2 and 
Level 3 security 
requirements 
o Limited check against 
Level 2 and assess 
against all Level 3 
CMMC security 
requirements 
o Intermediary devices 
are permitted to 
provide the capability 
for the specialized 
asset to meet one or 
more CMMC security 
requirements  
Assets that are not in the Level 3 CMMC Assessment Scope 

 
 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
4 
 
Asset 
Category 
Asset Description OSC Requirements 
CMMC Assessment 
Requirements 
Out-of-Scope 
Assets 
o Assets that cannot process, 
store, or transmit CUI; and do 
not provide security 
protections for CUI Assets 
o Assets that are physically or 
logically separated from CUI 
assets 
o Assets that fall into any in-
scope asset category cannot 
be considered an Out-of-Scope 
Asset 
o An endpoint hosting a VDI 
client configured to not allow 
any processing, storage, or 
transmission of CUI beyond 
the Keyboard/Video/Mouse 
sent to the VDI client is 
considered an Out-of-Scope 
Asset 
o  Prepare to justify the 
inability of an Out-of-Scope 
Asset to store, process, or 
transmit CUI 
o None 
 
  

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
5 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping  
The OSC  is  required  to  document  all  assets  that  are  part  of  the Level  3  certification 
assessment in an asset inventory and provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment 
Scope to facilitate scoping discussions during pre-assessment activities. 
CUI Assets 
CUI Assets can process, store, or transmit CUI as follows: 
• Process – CUI is used by an asset (e.g., accessed, entered, edited, generated, manipulated, 
or printed). 
• Store – CUI  is  inactive  or  at  rest on  an  asset  (e.g.,  located  on  electronic  media or  in  
physical format such as paper documents). 
• Transmit – CUI is being transferred from one asset to another asset (e.g., data in transit 
using physical or digital transport methods). 
CUI  Assets  are  part  of  the  CMMC  Assessment  Scope  and  are assessed  against  all CMMC 
requirements. 
In addition, the OSC is required to: 
• document each asset in an asset inventory; there is no requirement to embed each asset 
in the SSP; 
• document the treatment of these assets in the SSP; 
• provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment Scope (to include these assets) to 
facilitate scoping discussions during the pre-assessment. 
Security Protection Assets/Security Protection Data 
Security Protection Assets provide security functions or capabilities within the OSC’s CMMC 
Assessment Scope. 
Security Protection Assets are part of the CMMC Assessment Scope and are assessed against 
all Level 2 and Level 3 security requirements that are relevant to the capabilities provided. 
For  example,  an  External  Service  Provider  (ESP)  that  provides  a  security  information  and  
event management (SIEM) service may be separated logically and may process no CUI, but 
the   SIEM   contributes   to   meeting   the   CMMC   requirements   within   the   OSC’s CMMC 
Assessment Scope. Table 2 provides examples of Security Protection Assets.   
Security Protection Data means data stored or processed by Security Protection Assets that 
are used to protect an OSA's assessed environment. 
Security Protection Data is  security-relevant  information  which,  if  disclosed,  could  aid  an  
attacker in the compromise of the system. It includes, but is not limited to: 
• configuration data required to operate a security protection asset, 
• log files generated by or ingested by a security protection asset, 

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
6 
 
• data related to the configuration or vulnerability status of in-scope assets, and 
• passwords that grant access to the in-scope environment. 
Table 2. Security Protection Asset Examples 
Asset Type Security Protection Asset Examples 
People 
• Consultants who provide cybersecurity services 
• Managed service provider personnel who implement system maintenance 
• Enterprise network administrators 
Technology 
• Cloud-based security solutions 
• Hosted Virtual Private Network (VPN) services 
• SIEM solutions 
Facilities 
• Co-located data centers 
• Security Operations Centers (SOCs) 
• OSC office buildings 
In addition, the OSC is required to: 
• document each asset in an asset inventory; there is no requirement to embed each asset 
in the SSP; 
• document the treatment of these assets in the SSP; and 
• provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment Scope (to include these assets) to 
facilitate scoping discussions during the pre-assessment. 
Specialized Assets 
The following are considered Specialized Assets for a Level 3  certification assessment: 
• Government Furnished  Equipment  (GFE)  is  all  equipment owned  or  leased  by  the  
government and includes OSC-acquired equipment that is based on government required 
specifications   and/or   configurations.   Government   Furnished   Equipment   does   not   
include  intellectual  property  or  software  [Reference: Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  
(FAR) 52.245-1]. 
• Internet of Things (IoT) or Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) means the network of 
devices  that  contain  the  hardware,  software,  firmware,  and  actuators  which  allow  the  
devices to connect, interact, and freely exchange data and information, as defined in NIST 
SP 800-172A
1
. They are interconnected devices having physical or virtual representation 
in  the  digital  world,  sensing/actuation  capability,  and  programmability  features.  They  
are  uniquely  identifiable  and  may  include  smart  electric  grids,  lighting,  heating,  air  
conditioning, and fire and smoke detectors. 
 
1
 NIST SP800-172A March 2022 

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
7 
 
• Operational Technology (OT)
2
 means programmable systems or devices that interact 
with  the  physical  environment  (or  manage  devices  that  interact  with  the  physical  
environment).  These  systems  or  devices  detect  or  cause  a  direct  change  through  the  
monitoring  or  control  of  devices,  processes,  and  events.  Examples  include  industrial  
control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and physical access 
control mechanisms. [Source: as defined in NIST SP 800-160v2 Rev 1 (incorporated by 
reference,  see  32  CFR  §  170.2.)].  NOTE:  Operational  Technology  (OT)  specifically  
includes  Supervisory  Control  and  Data  Acquisition  (SCADA);  this  is  a  rapidly  evolving  
field.  [Source:  DRAFT,  NIST  SP  800-82r3] is  used  in  manufacturing  systems,  industrial  
control systems (ICS), or supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems. 
• Restricted    Information Systems    means    systems    [and    associated    Information 
Technology  (IT)  components  comprising  the  system]  that  are  configured  based  on  
government  security  requirements  (i.e.,  connected  to  something  that  was  required  to  
support  a  functional  requirement)  and  are  used  to  support  a  contract  (e.g.,  fielded  
systems, obsolete systems, and product deliverable replicas). 
• Test Equipment means hardware and/or associated IT components used in the testing 
of  products,  system  components,  and  contract  deliverables.  It  can include  hardware  
and/or  associated  IT  components  used  in  the  testing  of  products,  system  components,  
and  contract  deliverables  (e.g.,  oscilloscopes,  spectrum  analyzers,  power  meters,  and  
special test equipment). 
Specialized  Assets  are  part  of  the  Level  3  CMMC  Assessment  Scope  per 32  CFR  §  170. 
19(d)(1) Table 3.  Note that Specialized Assets may be eligible for an Enduring Exception. The 
OSC  should  prepare  for  these  assets  to  be  assessed  against  all CMMC  requirements unless 
they are physically or logically isolated into purpose-specific networks (with no connection 
to   the   Internet   or   other   networks).   Specialized   Assets   may   have   limitations   on   the   
application  of  certain  security  requirements.  To  accommodate  such  issues  intermediary 
devices are permitted to provide the capability for the specialized asset to meet one or more 
CMMC  requirements. An  example  of  an  intermediary  device  used  in  conjunction  with  a  
specialized asset is a boundary device or a proxy. 
Out-of-Scope Assets 
Out-of-Scope  Assets  cannot process,  store,  or  transmit CUI,  and  do  not provide  security  
protections for CUI Assets. Assets that are physically or logically separated from CUI Assets 
and do not provide security protections for CUI Assets are also Out-of-Scope Assets.  Assets 
that fall into any in-scope asset category cannot be considered an Out-of-Scope Asset. 
In  accordance  with  32 CFR  §  170.19(d)(1), Out-of-Scope  Assets  are  not part  of  a  Level  3  
certification assessment. There are no documentation requirements for Out-of-Scope Assets. 
Defining the CMMC Assessment Scope 
After categorizing its assets, the OSC then specifies the CMMC Assessment Scope. 
 
2
 OT includes hardware and software that use direct monitoring and control of industrial equipment to detect 
or cause a change. 

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
8 
 
The CMMC  Assessment  Scope  includes all  assets  in  the  OSC’s  environment  that  will  be  
assessed in accordance with Table 1 . OSCs will be required to provide documentation that 
specifies the CMMC Assessment Scope to the assessor. Details about required documentation 
for each asset category can be found in the CMMC Asset Categories s ection above. 
The following asset categories are part of the Level 3 CMMC Assessment Scope: 
• CUI Assets 
• Security Protection Assets 
• Specialized Assets 
Self-assessments  and  certification  assessments  are  valid  for  a  defined  CMMC  Assessment  
Scope as outlined in 32 CFR § 170.19 CMMC Scoping. A new assessment is required if there 
are significant architectural or boundary changes to the previous CMMC Assessment Scope. 
Examples   include,   but   are   not   limited   to,   expansions   of   networks   or   mergers   and   
acquisitions.  Operational  changes  within  a CMMC  Assessment  Scope,  such  as  adding  or  
subtracting resources within the existing assessment boundary that follow the existing SSP 
do not require a new assessment, but rather are covered by the annual affirmations to the 
continuing compliance with requirements. 
External Service Provider Considerations 
An External Service Provider (ESP) can be within the OSA’s scope of CMMC requirements if 
it  meets  CUI  or  Security  Protection  Asset  criteria. To  be  considered  an  ESP,  data  
(specifically  CUI  or  Security  Protection  Data,  e.g.,  log  data,  configuration  data)  must  
reside on the ESP assets as set forth in 32 CFR § 170.19(d)(2). Special considerations in for 
an OSC using an ESP include the following: 
• The  use  of  an  ESP,  its  relationship  to  the  OSA,  and  the  services  provided  need  to  be  
documented  in  the  OSA’s  SSP  and  described  in  the  ESP’s  service  description  and  
customer  responsibility  matrix  (CRM),  which  describes  the  responsibilities  of  the  OSA  
and ESP with respect to the services provided. 
• Evaluate the ESP’s CRM where the provider identifies security control objectives that are 
the   provider’s   responsibility   and   security   control   objectives   that   are   the   OSC’s 
responsibility. 
• Consider  the  agreements  in  place  with  the  ESP,  such  as  service-level  agreements, 
memoranda of understanding, and contracts that support the OSC’s information security 
objectives. 
• ESPs that are CSPs,  
o and store, process, or transmit CUI, must meet the FedRAMP requirements in DFARS 
clause 252.204-7012.  
o Use of a CSP does not relieve an OSC of its obligation to implement the 24 
Level  3  security  requirements.  These  24  requirements  apply  to  every  
environment where the CUI data is processed, stored, or transmitted, when 
Level  3  (DIBCAC)  is  the  designated  CMMC  Status.  If  any  of  these  24  
requirements  are  inherited  from  a  CSP,  the  OSC  must  demonstrate  that  

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
9 
 
protection  during  a  Level  3  certification  assessment  via a  Customer  
Implementation   Summary/Customer   Responsibility   Matrix   (CIS/CRM)   
and  associated  Body  of  Evidence  (BOE).  The  BOE  must  clearly  indicate  
whether the OSC or the CSP is responsible for meeting each requirement 
and which requirements are implemented versus inherited. 
o and  do  NOT  store,  process,  or  transmit  CUI,  are  not  required  to  meet  FedRAMP  
requirements in DFARS clause 252.204-7012. Services provided by an ESP are in the 
OSA’s assessment scope. 
• ESPs that are not a CSP,  
o and  store,  process,  or  transmit  CUI,  require  assessment.  The  ESP  services  used  to  
meet OSA requirements are within the scope of the OSA’s CMMC assessment. 
o and  do  NOT  store,  process,  or  transmit  CUI,  do  not  require  their  own  CMMC 
assessment. Services provided by an ESP are in the OSA’s assessment scope. 
o may voluntarily request a DIBCAC assessment, and the DIBCAC may conduct such an 
assessment, if the ESP makes that business decision. 
• OSAs shall also be assessed at Level 2 or Level 3, as applicable, against their on-premise 
infrastructure connecting to the ESP. As part of the CMMC Assessment Scope, the security 
requirements from the CRM must be documented or referred to in the OSA’s SSP, which 
will also be assessed. 
• ESPs can be part of the same corporate/organizational structure but still be external to 
the OSA such as a centralized SOC or NOC which supports multiple business units. The 
same  requirements  apply  and  are  based  on  whether  or  not  the  ESP  provides  cloud  
services and whether or not the ESP processes, stores, or transmits CUI on their systems. 
• An ESP that is used as staff augmentation and the OSA provides all processes, technology, 
and facilities does not need CMMC assessment. 
• When  ESPs  are  assessed  as  part  of  an  OSAs  assessment,  the  type  of  the  assessment  is  
dictated by the OSA's DoD solicitation and contract requirement. 
 
Cloud Service Provider (CSP) means an external company that provides cloud services based 
on  cloud  computing.  Cloud  computing  is  a  model  for  enabling  ubiquitous,  convenient,  on-
demand  network  access  to  a  shared  pool  of  configurable  computing  resources  (e.g.,  
networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and 
released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. An ESP would be 
considered  a  CSP  when  it  provides  its  own  cloud  services  based  on  a  model  for  enabling  
ubiquitous,   convenient,   on-demand   network   access   to   a   shared   pool   of   configurable   
computing that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or 
service provider interaction. 
An ESP (not a CSP) that provides technical support services to its clients would be considered 
a  Managed  Service  Provider.  It  does  not  host  its  own  cloud  platform  offering.  An  ESP  may  
utilize cloud offerings to deliver services to clients without being a CSP. 
An ESP that manages a third-party cloud service on behalf of an OSA would not be 
considered a CSP  

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
10 
 
An  ESP  may  voluntarily  request  its  own  Level  3  assessment  by  contacting  the  Defense 
Industrial  Base  Cybersecurity  Assessment  Center  (DIBCAC).  Contact  information  can  be  
found at https://www.dcma.mil/DIBCAC/. 
Not all companies that provide services to an OSA should be considered an ESP. Cloud based 
services   such   as   human   resource   and   accounting   SaaS   applications   typically   do   not   
contribute to the security of the OSA’s environment; process or store SPD; or process, store, 
or  transmit  CUI.  The  OSA  must  determine  if  the  company  providing  the  service  should  be  
considered  an  ESP  based  on  the  services  provided  and  if  CUI  is  processed,  stored,  or  
transmitted. 
 
  

 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 3 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 3 | Version 2.13 
11 
 
 
This page intentionally left blank. 
 
 

 
 
 