

Version 2.13 | September 2024 
DoD-CIO-00005 (ZRIN 0790-ZA21) 
CMMC Scoping Guide 
Level 1 
24-T-
2769

CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 1 | Version 2.  13 
ii 
NOTICES 
The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to 
bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public 
regarding existing requirements under the law or departmental policies. 
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited.

 
Introduction 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 1 | Version 2.  13 
1 
 
Introduction 
This document provides scoping guidance for Level 1 of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model 
Certification (CMMC) as set forth in section 170.19 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations 
(CFR).  Guidance  for  scoping  a  Level  2  self-assessment or  certification  assessment  can  be  
found  in  the CMMC  Scoping  Guide  – Level  2 document.  Guidance  for  scoping  a  Level  3  
certification assessment can be found in the CMMC Scoping Guide – Level 3 document. More 
details on the CMMC Model can be found in the CMMC Model Overview document. 
Purpose and Audience  
This guide is intended for Organizations Seeking Assessment (OSAs) that will be conducting 
a Level 1 self-assessment and the professionals or companies that will support them in those 
efforts. 
  

 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 1 | Version 2.  13 
2 
 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
Level 1 Assessment Scope 
Prior  to  a  Level  1  self-assessment the OSA must  specify  the  CMMC  Assessment  Scope.  The  
CMMC  Assessment  Scope  defines  which  assets  within  the  OSA’s environment  will  be  
assessed and the details of the self-assessment. There are no documentation requirements 
for Level 1 self-assessments including In-Scope, Out-of-Scope, and Specialized Assets. 
In-Scope Assets 
Assets in scope for a Level 1 self-a  ssessment, as defined in 32 CFR § 170.19(b), are all assets 
that process, store, or transmit Federal Contract Information (FCI). 
• Process – FCI is used by an asset (e.g., accessed, entered, edited, generated, manipulated, 
or printed). 
• Store – FCI is inactive or at rest on an asset (e.g., located on electronic media, in system 
component memory, or in physical format such as paper documents). 
• Transmit – FCI is being transferred from one asset to another asset (e.g., data in transit 
using physical or digital transport methods). 
These  assets  are  part  of  the  CMMC  Assessment  Scope  and  are  assessed  against  all Level  1 
requirements. 
Out-of-Scope Assets 
Assets out of scope for a Level 1 self-assessment, as defined in 32 CFR § 170.19(b)(2),  are  
those  that  do  not  process,  store,  or  transmit  FCI.  These  assets  are  outside  of  the  CMMC  
Assessment Scope and are not part of the assessment. 
Specialized Assets 
Specialized Assets, as defined in 32 CFR § 170.19(b)(2)(ii), are those assets that can process, 
store, or transmit FCI but are unable to be fully secured, including: Internet of Things (IoT) 
devices,   Industrial   Internet   of   Things   (IIoT)   devices,   Operational   Technology   (OT),   
Government   Furnished   Equipment   (GFE),   Restricted   Information   Systems,   and   Test   
Equipment. Specialized Assets are not part of the Level 1 self-assessment scope and are not 
assessed against CMMC requirements. The following assets, defined in 32 CFR § 170.4, are 
considered specialized assets for a Level 1 self-assessment. 
• Government Furnished  Equipment  (  GFE)    has  the  same  meaning  as  “government-
furnished  property”  as  defined  in  48  CFR  §  45.101. Government-furnished  property  
means  property  in  the  possession  of,  or  directly  acquired  by,  the  Government  and  
subsequently  furnished  to  the  contractor  for  performance  of  a  contract.  Government-
furnished  property  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  spares  and  property  furnished  for  
repair,  maintenance,  overhaul,  or  modification.  Government-furnished  property  also  
includes   contractor-acquired   property   if   the   contractor-acquired   property   is   a   

 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 1 | Version 2.  13 
3 
 
deliverable under a cost contract when accepted by the Government for continued use 
under the contract. 
• Internet of Things (IoT) or Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) is defined is NIST SP 
800-172A. These are interconnected devices having physical or virtual representation in 
the  digital  world,  sensing/actuation  capability,  and  programmability  features.  They  are  
uniquely   identifiable   and   may   include   smart   electric   grids,   lighting,   heating,   air   
conditioning,  and  fire  and  smoke  detectors  [  Reference:  iot.ieee.org/definition;  National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-183]. 
• Operational Technology (OT)
1
 means programmable systems or devices that interact 
with  the  physical  environment  (or  manage  devices  that  interact  with  the  physical  
environment).  These  systems  or  devices  detect  or  cause  a  direct  change  through  the  
monitoring  or  control  of  devices,  processes,  and  events.  Examples  include  industrial  
control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and physical access 
control mechanisms. [Source: NIST SP 800-160v2 Rev 1] NOTE: Operational Technology 
(OT)  specifically  includes  Supervisory  Control  and  Data  Acquisition  (SCADA);  this  is  a  
rapidly evolving field. [Source: NIST SP 800-82r3] 
• Restricted    Information    Systems    means    systems    [and    associated    Information 
Technology (IT)   components comprising the system] that are configured based entirely 
on government security requirements (i.e., connected to something that was required to 
support  a  functional  requirement)  and  are  used  to  support  a  contract  (e.g.,  fielded  
systems, obsolete systems, and product deliverable replicas). 
• Test Equipment means hardware and/or associated IT components used in the testing 
of products, system components, and contract deliverables. 
  
 
1
 Operational Technology includes hardware and software that use direct monitoring and control of industrial 
equipment to detect or cause a change. 

 
Additional Guidance on Level 1 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 1 | Version 2.  13 
4 
 
Additional Guidance on Level 1 Scoping 
In accordance with 32 CFR § 170.19(b)(3), to   appropriately scope a Level 1 self-assessment, 
the OSA  should consider  the  people,  technology,  facilities,  and  external  service  providers  
within its environment that process, store, or transmit FCI. 
• People – May  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  employees,  contractors,  vendors,  and  
external service provider personnel. 
• Technology – May  include, but  are  not  limited  to,  servers,  client  computers,  mobile  
devices,  network  appliances  (e.g.,  firewalls,  switches,  APs,  and  routers),  VoIP  devices,  
applications, virtual machines, and database systems. 
• Facilities – May include, but are not limited to, physical office locations, satellite offices, 
server rooms, datacenters, manufacturing plants, and secured rooms. 
• External Service Provider (ESP) – as defined in 32 CFR § 170.4, means external people, 
technology,   or   facilities   that   an   OSA   utilizes   for   provision   and   management   of   
comprehensive IT and/or cybersecurity services on behalf of the OSA. 
In  accordance  with  32  CFR  §  170.19(b)(1),  assets  that  process,  store,  or  transmit FCI  and 
which are not Specialized Assets are in the CMMC Assessment Scope. Using the asset types 
approach allows an    OSA to determine how they will satisfy the Level 1 requirements. FCI is 
a broad category of information; therefore, the self-assessment may need to address a wide 
array of assets. 
For example, identifying the people within the OSA who process, store, or transmit FCI, will 
assist with fulfillment of the assessment of the following Level 1 security requirement: 
• IA.L1-b.1.v – Identify  information  system  users,  processes  acting  on  behalf  of  users,  or  
devices. 
As  another  example, identification of all  technologies  may  inform  assessment  of the 
following Level 1 security requirements: 
• AC.L1-b.1.iii – Verify  and  control/limit  connections  to  and  use  of  external  information  
systems. 
• SC.L1-b.1.x – Monitor,     control,     and     protect     organizational     communications     (i.e.,     
information transmitted or received by organizational information systems) at the external 
boundaries and key internal boundaries of the information systems. 
Self-assessments and certification assessments may be valid for a defined CMMC Assessment 
Scope as outlined in 32 CFR § 170.19 CMMC Scoping. A new assessment is required if there 
are significant architectural or boundary changes to the previous CMMC Assessment Scope. 
Examples   include,   but   are   not   limited   to,   expansions   of   networks   or   mergers   and   
acquisitions.  Operational  changes  within  a  CMMC Assessment  Scope,  such  as  adding  or  
subtracting resources within the existing assessment boundary that follow the existing SSP
2
 
do not require a new assessment, but rather are covered by the annual affirmations to the 
continuing compliance with requirements. 
 
2
 It is recommended that an OSA develop a SSP as a best practice at Level 1. However, it is not required in order 
to conduct a Level 1 self-assessment. 

 
Additional Guidance on Level 1 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 1 | Version 2.  13 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This page intentionally left blank. 

 
 
 