

Introduction 
Version 2.13 | September 2024 
DoD-CIO  -00006 (ZRIN 0790-ZA22) 
CMMC Scoping Guide 
Level 2 
 
24-T-2770

CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
ii 
NOTICES 
The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to 
bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public 
regarding existing CMMC requirements under the law or departmental policies. 
DISTRIBUTIO
N STATEMENT A.  Approved for   public release. Distribution is unlimited.

Introduction 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
1 
Introduction 
This document provides scoping guidance for Level 2  of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model 
Certification (CMMC) as set forth in section 170.19 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations 
(CFR ). Guidance for scoping a Level 1  self -assessment can be found in the CMMC  Scoping  
Guide  – Level 1 document. Guidance for scoping a Level 3 certification assessment can be 
found in the CMMC Scoping Guide – Level 3 document. More details on the CMMC Model can 
be found in the CMMC Model Overview document. 
Purpose and Audience
This guide is intended for Organizations Seeking Assessment (OSAs) that will be conducting 
a  Level 2  self-assessment in  accordance  with 32  CFR   §  170.16,  Organizations  Seeking 
Certification (OSCs) that will be obtaining a Level 2 c ertification assessment in accordance 
with    32  CFR  § 170.17,   and the professionals or companies that will support them in those 
efforts. The security requirements for a Level 2 self -a ssessment and a Level 2 certification 
assessment are the same, the only difference in these assessments is whether it is conducted 
by the OSA or by an independent C3PAO. 
OSCs are a subset of OSAs as all organizations will   participate in an assessment, but   self -
assessment cannot result in a certification. 

Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
2 
Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
An Assessment, as defined in 32 CFR  § 170.4, means the testing or evaluation of security 
controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating 
as  intended,  and  producing  the  desired  outcome  with  respect  to  meeting  the  security 
requirements for an information system or organization. 
This document should help the reader understand the categorization of assets that,    in tu  rn, 
inform the specification of the boundary for a    CMMC assessment. The scope of the   CMMC 
Program does  not  include  classified  assets,  even  if  they  contain  applicable Controlled 
Unclassified Information (CUI). 
Prior    to conducting a CMMC assessment, the OSA must specify the CMMC Assessment Scope 
as defined in 32 CFR  § 170.19(c). The CMMC Assessment Scope defines which assets within 
the OSA’s environment will be assessed and the details of the assessment. 
Because the scoping of a Level   2 assessment is not the same as the scoping of a Level 3 
assessment, before determining the CMMC Assessment Scope it is important to first consider 
if the organization will seek a CMMC Status of Final Level 3  (DIBCAC). If the intent is to obtain 
a CMMC Status of Final Level 3  (DIBCAC), the OSC should also consider the guidance provided 
in the CMMC Scoping Guide – Level 3 document. The OSC must closeout a ny Level 2 Plan of 
Action and Milestones (POA&M) and achieve a CMMC Status of Final    Level 2 (C3PAO) prior 
to initiating a Level 3 certification assessment. 
Assets  designated  as  Contractor  Risk  Managed  Assets (CRMAs) in  the Level  2 CMMC 
Assessment Scope are treated as CUI assets if they fall within the Level 3 CMMC Assessment 
Scope.  OSCs  may  choose  to  designate  them  as  CUI Assets for  the  Level  2 certification 
assessment and have them assessed by a C3PAO. 
Since the assessment requirements for Specialized Assets differ between Level 2 and Level 
3, the OSC may choose to have them assessed by a C3PAO during the Level 2 certification 
assessment. During a Level 3 certification assessment, DCMA DIBCAC may check any Level 2 
security requirement of any in-scope asset. 
CRMAs and Specialized Assets not assessed to the Level 3 scoping requirements by a C3PAO 
during the Level 2 certification assessment will undergo limited checks for compliance with 
Level 2 security requirements during the DCMA DIBCAC certification assessment. 
CMMC Asset Categories 
For a Level 2 assessment, assets are mapped into one of five  categories defined in 32 CFR § 
170.19(c  )(1)  Table 3. This  table describes  each  asset  category and  its  corresponding OSA 
requirements and CMMC assessment requirements. Additional information about each asset 
category is provided in the ensuing sections. 

Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
3 
Table 1 . CMMC Asset Categories and Associated Requirements Overview 
Asset 
Category 
Asset Description OSA Requirements CMMC Assessment 
Requirements 
Assets that are in the Level 2 CMMC Assessment Scope 
Controlled 
Unclassified 
Information 
(CUI) Assets 
oAssets that process, store, or
transmit CUI
oDocument in the asset
inventory
oDocument asset treatment in
the System Security Plan (SSP)
 
oDocument in the network
diagram of the CMMC
Assessment Scope
oPrepare to be assessed against 
CMMC Level 2 security
requirements
oAssess against all Level 2
security requirements
Security 
Protection 
Assets 
oAssets that provide security
functions or capabilities to the
OSA’s CMMC Assessment
Scope
oDocument in the asset
inventory
oDocument asset treatment in
SSP
oDocument in the network
diagram of the CMMC
Assessment Scope
oPrepare to be assessed against 
CMMC Level 2 security
requirements
oAssess against Level 2 security
requirements that are relevant 
to the capabilities provided
Contractor 
Risk 
Managed 
Assets 
oAssets that can, but are not
intended to, process, store, or
trans   mit CUI because of
security policy, procedures,
and practices in place
oAssets are not required to be
physically or logically
separated from CUI assets
oDocument in the asset
inventory
oDocument asset treatment in
the SSP 
oDocument in the network
diagram of the CMMC
Assessment Scope
oPrepare to be assessed against 
CMMC Level 2 security
requirements
oReview the SSP:
i. If sufficiently documented,
do not assess against other
CMMC security
requirements, except as
noted
ii. If OSA’s risk-based security
policies, procedures, and
practices documentation or
other findings raise
questions about these
assets, the assessor can
conduct a limited check to
identify deficiencies
iii.  The limited check(s) shall
not materially increase the
assessment duration nor the 
ass essment cost
iv.  The limited check(s) will be
assessed against CMMC
security requirements
Specialized 
Assets 
oAssets that can process, store,
or transmit CUI but are unable
to be fully secured, including:
Internet of Things (IoT)
devices, Industrial Internet of
Things (IIoT) devices,
oDocument in the asset
inventory
oDocument asset treatment in
the SSP
oShow these assets are
managed using the
oReview the SSP
oDo not assess against other
CMMC security requirements

Identifying the CMMC Assessment Scope 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
4 
Operational Technology (OT), 
Government Furnished 
Equipment (GFE), Restricted 
Information Systems, and Test 
Equipment 
contractor’s risk-based 
security policies, 
procedures, and practices 
oDocument in the network
diagram of the CMMC
Assessment Scope
Assets that are not in the Level 2 CMMC Assessment Scope 
Out-of-Scope 
Assets 
oAssets that cannot process,
store, or transmit CUI; and
do not provide security
protections for CUI Assets
oAssets that are physically or
logically separated from CUI
assets
oAssets that fall into any in-
scope asset category 
cannot be 
considered an Out-of-Scope
Asset
oAn endpoint hosting a VDI
client configured to not allow
any processing, storage, or
transmission of CUI beyond
the Keyboard/Video/Mouse
sent to the VDI client is
considered an Out-of-Scope
Asset
oPrepare to justify the inability
of an Out-of-Scope Asset to
store, process, or transmit CUI
oNone

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
5 
Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
The   OSA   i s  required  to  document  all  asset  categories that  are  part  of  the  Level  2 self -
assessment or  certification assessment in an asset inventory and provide a network diagram 
of  the  CMMC  Assessment Scope  to  facilitate  scoping  discussions  during  pre-assessment 
activities. 
CUI Assets 
CUI Assets process, store, or transmit CUI as follows: 
•Process – CUI can be used by an asset (e.g., accessed, entered, edited, generated,
manipulated, or   printed).
•Store – CUI is inactive or at rest on an asset (e.g., located on electronic media, in
system component memory, or in physical format such as paper documents).
•Transmit – CUI   is b  eing transferred from one asset to another asset (e.g., data in
transit using physical or digital transport methods).
CUI Assets are part of the CMMC Assessment Scope and are assessed against all  CMMC 
requirements. 
In addition, the OSA  is required to: 
•document each asset in an asset inventory;  there is no requirement to embed each
asset in the System Security Plan (SSP);
•document the treatment of these assets in the SSP;
•provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment Scope (to include these assets)
to facilitate scoping discussions during the pre-assessment.
Security Protection Assets/Security Protection Data 
Security Protection Assets provide security functions or capabilities within the OSA’s    CMMC 
Assessment Scope. 
Security Protection Assets are part of the CMMC Assessment Scope and are    assessed against 
Level 2 security requirements that are relevant to the capabilities provided. For example, an 
External  Service  Provider (ESP ),  defined  in 32  CFR   §170.4, that  provides  a  security 
information and event management (SIEM) service may be separated logically and may not 
process CUI, but the SIEM does contribute to meeting the CMMC requirements within the 
OSA’s    CMMC Assessment Scope. Table 2 provides examples of Security Protection Assets. 
Security Protection Data means data stored or processed by Security Protection Assets that 
are used to protect an OSA's assessed environment. 
Security Protection Data  is security-relevant information which, if disclosed, could aid an 
attacker in the compromise of the system. It includes, but is not limited to: 
•configuration data required to operate a security protection asset,

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
6 
•log files generated by or ingested by a security protection asset,
•data related to the configuration or vulnerability status of in-scope assets, and
•passwords that grant access to the in-scope environment.
Table 2 . Security Protection Asset Examples 
Asset Type Security Protection Asset Examples 
People 
•Consultants who provide cybersecurity service
•Managed service provider personnel who implement system maintenance
•Enterprise network administrators
Technology 
•Cloud-based security solutions
•Hosted Virtual Private Network (VPN) services
•SIEM solutions
Facilities 
•Co-located data centers
•Security Operations Centers (SOCs)
•OSA  office buildings
In addition, the OSA  is required to: 
•document each asset in an asset inventory; there is no requirement to embed each
asset in the SSP;
•document the treatment of these assets in the SSP; and
•provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment Scope    (to include these assets)
to facilitate scoping discussions during the pre-assessment.
Contractor Risk Managed Assets 
Contractor Risk Managed Assets are not intended to, but   are capable of processing , stor   ing, 
or  transmitting  CUI  because  of  the  security  policy,  procedures,  and  practices  in  place. 
Contractor Risk Managed Assets are not required to be physically or logically separated from 
CUI Assets. 
Contractor Risk Managed Assets are part of the Level 2 CMMC Assessment Scope. These 
assets are managed using the OSA’s    risk-   based information security policy, procedures, and 
practices.  Furthermore, the  assets  must  be  assessed  against  CMMC  requirements  if 
insufficiently documented in the SSP or if the OSA  ’s risk-   based security policies, procedures, 
and practices documentation or other findings raise questions about these assets. In these 
cases, the assessor can conduct a limited check to identify deficiencies. 
In addition, the OSA  is required to: 
•document each asset in an asset inventory; there is no requirement to embed each
asset in the SSP;
•document the treatment of these assets in the SSP; and

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
7 
•provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment Scope    (to include these assets)
to facilitate scoping discussions during the pre  -assessment.
Assessment requirements for Contractor Risk Managed Asset are detailed in Table 1. 
Specialized Assets 
The following are considered Specialized Assets for a Level 2  assessment when documented 
in accordance with Table 1 (reprinted from 32 CFR § 170.19(c)(1) Table 3).   Note that a 
Specialized Asset may be eligible for an Enduring Exception. 
•Government Furnished Equipment (GFE ) is all   equipment owned or leased by the
government  and  includes OSA -acquired equipment  that  is  based  on government
required  specifications  and/or  configurations.  Government Furnished  Equipment
does not include intellectual property or software [Reference: Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR  ) 52.245-1].
•Internet of Things (IoT ) or Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) means the network
of devices that contain the hardware, software, firmware, and actuators which allow
the devices to connect, interact, and freely exchange data and information, as defined
in NIST SP 800-172A  .  They are interconnected devices having physical or virtual
representation   in   the   digital   world,   sensing/actuation   capability,   and
programmability  features.  They  are  uniquely  identifiable  and  may  include  smart
electric grids, lighting, heating, air conditioning, and fire and smoke detectors.
•Operational  Technology  ( OT)
1
  means  programmable  systems  or  devices  that
interact with the physical environment (or manage devices that interact with the
physical environment). These systems or devices detect or cause a direct change
through the monitoring or control of devices, processes, and events. Examples include
industrial control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and
physical access control mechanisms. [Source: as defined in NIST SP 800-160v2 Rev 1
(incorporated by reference, see  32 CFR § 170.2.)]. NOTE: Operational Technology
(OT) specifically includes Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA); this is
a rapidly evolving field. [Source: DRAFT, NIST SP 800-82r3 ] is used in manufacturing
systems, industrial control systems (ICS), or supervisory control and data acquisition
(SCADA) systems.
•Restricted   Information   Systems  means  systems [and  associated Information
Technology (IT) c omponents comprising the system] tha t are configured based on
government security requirements (i.e., connected to something that was required to
support a functional requirement) and are used to support a contract (e.g., fielded
systems, obsolete systems, and product deliverable replicas).
•Test  Equipment means hardware and/or associated IT components used in the
testing of products, system components, and contract deliverables. It  can include
hardware and/or associated IT components used in the testing of products, system
components,  and  contract  deliverables  (e.g.,  oscilloscopes,  spectrum  analyzers,
power meters, and special test equipment).
1
 OT includes hardware and software that use direct monitoring and control of industrial equipment to detect 
or cause a change. 

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
8 
Specialized Asset   s are part of the CMMC Assessment Scope. In accordance with 32 CFR  § 
170.19(c)(1) Table   3, t he OSA  shall    document these assets in the SSP and detail how they are 
managed using the OSA’s    risk-   based information security policy, procedures, and practices. 
In addition, the  OSA  is required to: 
•document each asset in asset inventory; there is no requirement to embed every asset
in the SSP;
•document these assets in the SSP to show they are managed using the OSA ’s risk-
based security policies, procedures, and practices; and
•provide a network diagram of the CMMC Assessment Scope    (to include these assets)
to facilitate scoping discussions during the pre-assessment.
An assessor will review the SSP to verify that specialized assets are managed using the  OSA’s 
risk-   based information security policy, procedures, and practices, and    accounted for within 
the  OSA ’s CMMC Assessment Scope. The assessor will not retain a copy of the SSP. 
Out-   of-Scope Assets 
Out -of-Scope Assets cannot process, store, or transmit CUI, and do not provide security 
protections for   CUI Assets. Assets that  are  physically or logically separated from CUI   Assets  
and do not provide security protections for CUI Assets are also Out-of-Scope Assets. An asset 
that falls into any in-scope asset category cannot be considered an Out-of-Scope Asset. 
In accordance with 32 CFR  § 170.19(c)(1), Out -of-Scope Assets are not part of a  Level 2 self -
assessment or certification assessment. There are no documentation requirements for Out-
of-Scope Assets. 
Defining the CMMC Assessment Scope 
After categorizing its assets, the OSA   then specifies the CMMC Assessment Scope. 
The   CMMC  Assessment  Scope  includes all  assets in  the OSA’s     environment that  will be 
assessed in accordance with Table    1. OSAs   will be required to provide documentation that 
specifies the  CMMC Assessment Scope  to the assessor. Details about required documentation 
for each asset category can be found in the CMMC Asset Categories section above. 
The following asset categories are part of the Level 2 CMMC Assessment Scope: 
•CUI Assets
•Security Protection Assets
•Contractor Risk Managed Assets
•Specialized Assets

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
9 
Separation Techniques 
Separation  is  a  system  architecture  design  concept  that  can  provide  physical/logical 
isolation of assets that process, transmit, or store CUI from assets not involved with CUI. 
Effective separation involves logi  cally or physically separating assets and is required only 
for Out-of-Scope Assets. By separating assets, the CMMC Assessment Scope can be limited. 
Effective separation for CMMC follows the guidance in NIST    SP   800-   171 Rev   2, which states: 
If  nonfederal  organizations  designate  specific  system  components  for  the  processing,  
storage,  or  transmission  of  CUI,  those  organizations  may  limit  the  scope  of  the  security  
requirements  by  isolating  the  designated  system  components  in  a  separate CUI  security  
domain.  Isolation  can  be  achieved  by  applying  architectural  and  design  concepts  (e.g.,  
implementing subnetworks with firewalls or other boundary protection devices and using 
information flow control mechanisms). Security domains may employ ph ysical separation, 
logical separation, or a combination of both. This approach can provide adequate security 
for the CUI and avoid increasing the organization’s security posture to a level beyond that 
which it requires for protecting its missions, operations, and assets. 
Logical separation occur   s when data transfer between physically connected assets (wired 
or wireless) is prevented by non-physical means such as software or network assets (e.g., 
firewall, routers, VPNs, VLANs). 
Physical separation occur   s wh  en assets have no connection (wired or wireless). Data can 
only be transferred manually (e.g., USB drive). 
Self  -assessments and certification assessments may be valid for a defined CMMC Assessment 
Scope as outlined in 32 CFR § 170.19 CMMC Scoping. A new assessment is required if there 
are significant architectural or boundary changes to the previous CMMC Assessment Scope. 
Examples  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  expansions  of  networks  or  mergers  and 
acquisitions.  Operational  changes  within  a CMMC Assessment  Scope,  such  as  adding  or 
subtracting resources within the existing assessment boundary that follow the existing SSP, 
do not require a new assessment, but rather may be covered by annual affirmations to the 
continuing compliance with requirements. 
External Service Provider Considerations 
An External Service Provider (ESP )  can be within the OSA’s scope of CMMC requirements if 
it meets CUI Asset and/or Security Protection Asset criteria. To be considered an ESP, data 
(specifically  CUI  or  Security  Protection  Data,  e.g.,  log  data,  configuration  data)  must  
reside on the ESP assets as set forth in 32 CFR  § 170.19(c) (2). Special considerations for a  n 
OSA  using an ESP include the following: 
•The use of an ESP, its relationship to the OSA, and the services provided need to be
documented in the OSA’s SSP and described in the ESP’s service description and
customer responsibility matrix (CRM), which describes the responsibilities of the OSA 
and ESP with respect to the services provided.
•Evaluate the ESP’s CRM  where the provider identifies security requirement objectives
that are the provider’s responsibility and security requirement objectives that are the
OSA’s    responsibility.

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
10 
•Consider the agreements in place with the ESP, such as service-level agreements,
memoranda  of  understanding,  and  contracts  that  support  the OSA ’s  information
security objectives.
•ESPs that are CSPs,
oand store, process, or transmit CUI, must meet the FedRAMP requirements in
DFARS clause 252.204-7012.
oand do NOT store, process, or transmit CUI, are not required to meet FedRAMP
requirements in DFARS clause 252.204-7012. Services provided by an ESP are in
the OSA’s assessment scope.
•ESPs that are not a CSP,
oand store, process, or transmit CUI, require assessment. The ESP services used to
meet OSA requirements are within the scope of the OSA’s CMMC assessment.
oand do NOT store, process, or transmit CUI, do not require their own CMMC
assessment. Services provided by an ESP are in the OSA’s assessment scope.
omay voluntarily request a C3PAO assessment, and a C3PAO may conduct such an
assessment, if the ESP makes that business decision.
•OSAs  shall  also  be  assessed  at  Level  2,  as  applicable,  against  their  on-premise
infrastructure connecting to the CSP. As part of the CMMC Assessment Scope, the
security requirements from the CRM must be documented or referred to in the OSA’s
SSP, which will also be assessed.
•ESPs can be part of the same corporate/organizational structure but still be external
to the OSA such as a centralized SOC or NOC which supports multiple business units.
The same requirements apply and are based on whether or not the ESP provides
cloud services and whether or not the ESP processes, stores, or transmits CUI on their
systems.
•An  ESP  that  is  used  as  staff  augmentation  and  the  OSA  provides  all  processes,
technology, and facilities does not need CMMC assessment.
•When ESPs are assessed as part of an OSAs assessment, the type of the assessment is
dictated by the OSA's DoD solicitation and contract requirement.
Cloud Service Provider (CSP) means an external company that provides cloud services based 
on cloud computing. Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-
demand  network  access  to  a  shared  pool  of  configurable  computing  resources  (e.g., 
networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and 
rel eased with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. An ESP would be 
considered a CSP when it provides its own cloud services based on a model for enabling 
ubiquitous,  convenient,  on-demand  network  access  to  a  shared  pool  of  configurable 
computing that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or 
service provider interaction. 
An ESP (not a CSP) that provides technical support services to its clients would be considered 
a M anaged Service Provider. It does not host its own cloud platform offering. An ESP may 
utilize cloud offerings to deliver services to clients without being a CSP. 
An ESP that manages a third-party cloud service on behalf of an OSA would not be considered 
a CSP. 

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
11 
Not all companies that provide services to an OSA should be considered an ESP. Cloud based 
services  such  as  human  resource  and  accounting  SaaS  applications  typically  do  not 
contribute to the security of the OSA’s environment; process or store SPD; or process, store, 
or transmit CUI. The   OSA must determine if the company providing the service should be 
considered  an  ESP  based  on  the  services  provided  and  if  CUI  is  processed,  stored,  or 
transmitted. 
Use Cases 
FCI and CUI in the Same Assessment Scope 
A  Level  2 self -a ssessment  or Level    2  cert ification assessment  satisfies  the  Level  1 self -
assessment requirements for the same CMMC Assessment Scope. If FCI is processed, stored, 
or transmitted within the same scope as CUI in the Level    2 scope, then the methods to 
implement the Level   2 security requirements apply towards meeting the Level   1 assessment 
objectives. The OSA is responsible for ensuring that only authorized users and processes 
have access to data regardless of its designation. 
FCI and CUI in Different Assessment Scopes 
If FCI and CUI do not share an environment, the two assessments would be conducted 
independently and methods to implement security requirements in one scope would not 
apply to the other scope. 
Use of Enclaves 
Satisfaction of CMMC security requirements may be accomplished by people, processes, or 
technologies which apply to the entire OSA enterprise. This does not mean all assets across 
the entire OSA enterprise are automatically part of a CMMC Assessment Scope. For example, 
a centralized IT group may acquire, configure, deploy, and maintain a standard anti-malware 
tool. Systems within a defined assessment scope use that centrally deployed tool. The anti-
malware tool and the people in the IT group who maintain it, the processes and policies to 
deploy and update it, and the supporting systems (e.g ., management server) could be in the 
CMMC Assessment Scope but other functions performed by the enterprise IT and other 
enterprise assets would not be automatically part of the CMMC Assessment Scope. 
Within the enclave, the OSA determines which requirements are implemented and which 
requirements are inherited; all requirements must be MET. If a process, policy, tool, or 
technology within the enclave would invalidate an implementation at the Enterprise level, 
that requirement cannot be inherited and the OSA must demonstrate that it is MET by 
implementation in some other way. 
There is no established metric for inherited implementations from an enterprise to any 
defined enclaves. The OSA determines the architecture that best meets its business needs 
and complies with CMMC requirements. 
Security Protection Data 
Security Protection Data (SPD) can be created by or used by a Security Protection Asset 
(SPA) . Aggregated logs in a SIEM are one example of SPD   and the SIEM is considered the SPA. 
The SIEM is part of the assessment scope. Because of the wide range of SIEM tools available, 
(on -premise hardware appliance; on-premise virtual appliance; or cloud based), methods of 

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
12 
assessing  the  SIEM  will  also  vary.  If  the  SIEM  and/or  associated  log  data  is  hosted  or 
maintained by an ESP, then the portion of the ESP that is used to provide the SIEM service or 
log storage is part of the OSA’s assessment scope. SIEM logs are typically available in hot 
storage for some period of time as part of the SIEM deployment. In this case, the   SPD   is 
collocated with the SPA . Cold storage of logs for a longer period of time is typically done 
offline or in cloud storage. The method used   and the location of the cold storage are  also in 
the OSA’s assessment scope. 

Additional Guidance on Level 2 Scoping 
CMMC Assessment Scope – Level 2 | V ersion 2.13 
13 
This page intentionally left blank. 

